It's important for you and really all consumers to know
some basic cybersecurity best practices for
protecting your information devices and network.
We call this cybersecurity hygiene.
Like hand washing, these small and simple steps make large differences.
In this video, I'll provide you with tips for keeping yourself,
your family, your community,
and your businesses safe online.
The tips are separated into three areas: personal security,
device security, and network security,
and will help you apply the security fundamentals,
including core security principles,
and critical security controls in your world.
It's important to understand how to protect yourself
online from the scams through social engineering.
You should recall that social engineering is an attempt to trick someone into
revealing information like a password or credit card information,
and this can then be used to attack other systems or networks or people's bank accounts.
How do you defeat social engineering?
Well, first of all, think before you click.
What this means is before you click on that link,
give a quick look to see whether it's valid or not.
Tip 2, trust your gut,
which just means, be a little skeptical.
If something doesn't feel right,
very well may not be right.
Third, when in doubt, ask somebody.
It's the easiest way to defeat social engineering.
When you log in, you enter a User Id.
You also need to prove that user Id belongs to you and you're the one using it.
That is often done with a password.
The problem is that passwords are a weak form of security.
We often use things we can easily remember,
like names of family members, pets,
sports schemes, or even cars.
Anyone who knows us can potentially guess our passwords.
Passwords can be cracked using special programs,
especially if they're short.
For extra security on our accounts,
we need to use long passwords of
at least wealth characters that contain numbers and special symbols,
and whenever possible, I recommend a passphrase instead of a password.
For example, I love ice cream,
but where you substitute some of the letters.
If you use something about you as your password,
then there's a much greater chance that someone could guess it.
So don't use anything about you,
like a child's name or a pet.
It's also not a good idea to reuse passwords because if someone knows your old password,
they can figure out your current password.
The problem with long and complex passwords is that they are hard to remember,
plus there are so many.
An option is to use a password manager program that remembers your passwords for you.
You store your password for websites and applications in your password vault.
You then use the vault whenever you need a password.
You'll experiment with password managers as part of the exercises throughout this course.
Passwords are known as single-factor authentication,
which means it only uses one form to prove our identity.
It's better to use multi-factor authentication or MFA,
which may also be known as two-factor authentication.
The different factors are something you know,
such as a password, something you are,
like your fingerprint, face,
or even your voice,
or something you have or possess,
like a smartphone or a car.
For example, many banks today require that you get a PIN sent to
your smartphone along with using
your personal password to access their application or website.
This uses something you know your password and something you have your device.
If you use your fingerprint on your phone,
it's something you are and something you have.
This reduces the possibility that someone may access your devices or account as you.